---
layout: essay
type: essay
title: "E7: Reflective Analysis of my ITM 352 Experience"
date: 2024-05-04
published: true
labels:
  - E7
  - ITM352 Experience
  - Reflection
---
<div style="border: 1px solid black; text-align:center;">
  <h4>Contents</h4>
  <h6>
    <a href="#goals">Course Goals</a> ||
    <a href="#elements">Course Elements</a> ||
    <a href="#challenges">Challenges & Achievements</a> ||
    <a href="#skill">Skill Development & Application</a> ||
    <a href="#AI">Use of AI</a> ||
    <a href="#future">Future & Growth</a>
  </h6>
</div>

<h2 id="goals">Course Goals ITM 352 has the following goals:</h2>
<ul>
  <li> 
    <h5>Acquiring basic programming skills in an IT context:</h5>
      <p>
        When we do labs in this class we learn basic programming skills in an IT context. Not only that we also have to look at the user manual to understand what each code does. Some modules that really helped with that are "variables and data," "Expressions and Operators, and so on till the end of the semester, so I should say all the modules helped.
      </p>
  </li>

  <li> 
    <h5>Understanding why MIS people need basic programming skills and knowledge:</h5>
      <p>
        During our lectures we went over how some codes are used in programming, which we used in our labs to undergo more understanding of what those code do. This then lead to algorithmic thinking. Understanding basic programming skills and knowledge helped us to think algorithmically, especially when we practice the day of week, labs and WODs to practice algorithmic thinking.
      </p>
  </li>

  <li> 
    <h5>Gaining hands-on experience in developing software applications:</h5>
      <p>
        I really got hands on experience when we removed the training wheels (screencasts) for the WODS. I felt that this made me more hands on is that I did not have a screencast to refer to when I had problems with my code. To add on, when we started doing the Assignments, we really were hands on because we had to change the template to our own. We used CSS, html, and javascript to make a working E-commerce, calculating day of the week, and making change. We developed algorithmic thinking doing so. 
      </p>
  </li>

  <li> 
    <h5>Experiencing first-hand MIS problems and solutions:</h5>
      <p>
        During this class we have come across many problems and first-hand had to solve them. In our class we had a discord where students can say what they were, and I sometimes try and help other students with their problems, and sometimes the error is very minimal like a misspelled word. We also experienced launching the Assignment #1 into google cloud, which was a bit complicated at first, but later figured out what we needed to do to work. We see a lot of errors in MIS, but we shall not give up if a problem ever come up, there is always a way if we put our mind to it.
      </p>
  </li>

  <li> 
    <h5>Experiencing and understanding first-hand project management, working in teams, software development issues:</h5>
      <p>
        We experienced and understand first-hand project management and software development issues more in the Assignments. The reason was because in the Assignments we needed to complete multiple tasks especially in Assignment #2 where there was login, registration, invoice, and our own IR. We needed to manage that and make sure all the tasks were complete.
      </p>
  </li>

  <li> 
    <h5>Gaining confidence in addressing MIS problems:</h5>
      <p>
        After many practices with WODS and Labs, we gained more confidence in our code, although it sometimes may be confusing we were able to create an E-commerce website in Assignment #1 and improved it more in Assignment #2. When we got to the Assignments we were able to understand more why things we not working, and knowing where to solve it or know where to start to look. In Assignment #2 and the lab cookies and session, we got to understand security problems and how to store data securely.
      </p>
  </li>
</ul>

<hr>

<h2 id="elements">Course Elements and Personal Engagement</h2>
<ul>
  <li>    
    <h5>What did you learn from creating a professional portfolio and using it in ITM 352?</h5>
      <p>
        Using a professional portfolio allowed me to keep organize and keep track of my progress. This portfolio allowed me to reflect what I have done, learned, and need to work on in my journey. Also one of our first assignments was setting up our portfolio, which also was the first time at us trying to understand what GitHub was, so in this case we learned about creating a new professional profile and the Github application.
      </p>
  </li>

  <li>    
    <h5>What did you gain from doing the WODs?</h5>
      <p>
          The WODs were always a reflection or an extension of our labs. Our WODs gave me more confidence that I can apply what we are learning even though sometimes I did need to take a peak at the screencasts. I even built more confidence after the screencasts were removed, although I did cry for some (most if not all) of the WODS we did towards the end. 
      </p>
  </li>

  <li>    
    <h5>Were the quizzes helpful in preparing you for the labs?</h5>
      <p>
        I think the quizzes were somewhat helpful with preparing for the labs, but I would suggest having a quizlet instead. I feel like if we have a quizlet we can better review there since they have multiple features of studying the topic. I feel the quizzes in Laulima were hard to follow along sometimes, and hard to access the information cuz they're in multiple pages. With quizlet though, we can access different topics at the same time.
      </p>
  </li>

  <li>    
    <h5>What did you learn from doing the labs?</h5>
      <p>
        In the labs we learned the basics, what each code has the potential to do and what they are allowed to do, their limits and potential. We used all of those basic code to think algorithmically. 
      </p>
  </li>

  <li>    
    <h5>What did you learn from doing the essays?</h5>
      <p>
        In the essays we learned how to format them and publish them. Other than technical things, we learned to organize our thoughts and know what we know, what we need to know, and what we need to work on. Essays are a good way to reflect on what we are doing. 
      </p>
  </li>

  <li>    
    <h5>What did you learn from doing Assignment 1 and Assignment 2?
</h5>
      <p>
        In Assignments #1 and #2 we learned about creating an E-commerce. We needed to apply basics of html, css, and javascript. In Assignment #1 we learned about creating a form for users to put quantities into to purchase items. We needed to set variables and functions to display products and the invoice. In Assignment #2 was where it got more complicated with transferring the quantities data through different pages. We also used more algorithmic thinking in Assignment #2 because we needed to make sure they had to be signed in or have an account to get to the invoice.
      </p>
    <p>
      My suggestion however, is to learn cookies and session before Assignment #2. My reasoning for this is because cookies and sessions will make it easier for students to do some of the IR, like IR5 in <a href="https://dport96.github.io/ITM352/morea/150.Assignment2/experience-Assignment2.html" target="_blank">Assignment #2</a> the IR difficulty ranges, which is kind of unfair because we have the same amount of time and some of the IR are more difficult than others. I feel with the help of cookies and session, that would help students store data easier. I also strongly push for this because students take a lot of time coding some of these and can produce poor practices within the students. With the help of cookies and sessions we can avoid poor programming practices, save time, and combines an assignment. Why do we need another assignment to just add the sessions and cookies, when they could have been easily implemented in Assignment #2. Although I do understand that we want students to have an understanding of each elements of the code, they can understand the important of the different elements by the struggle already had without the session and cookies in Assignment #2. 
    </p>
  </li>
</ul>

<hr>

<h2 id="challenges">Challenges and Achievements</h2>
<ul>
  <li>
    <h5>Detail the specific challenges you encountered during the course, such as understanding new programming concepts, completing WODs, web application development assignments.</h5>
    <p>
      What I was most challenging to me was understanding how errors worked, I could not get errors to display into my web applications from the server javascript to the html. I was having troubling getting the error from the URL and displaying the error messages into the html. Another thing I felt very difficult to understand was the operations. I did not understand the difference of =, ==, ===, =====, &&, &, || and so on. I only understand a few of those, and I learned that the "!" means "not" only when we did the Assignments. I feel that I struggled because sometimes in lectures we hyperfocus in one thing and briefly just briefly pass many other things. 
    </p>
  </li>

  <li>
    <h5>Explain how you overcame these challenges and the strategies that helped you succeed.</h5>
    <p id=Chat>
      To overcome these challenges I read the user manual and if I still did not understand I spent a more time asking ChatGPT about these and asking them "why" and if there are other alternatives, and how are they used, and again their potential and their limits. I also asked my instructor, TA, and classmates to overcome some of my challenges.
    </p>
  </li>

  <li>
    <h5>Highlight any particular achievements or milestones in the course that were significant to you.</h5>
    <p>
      I want to highlight a few things in this semester, I pushed through even when I cried (well to be honest I almost changed my major), I created a website website with forms that are formatted in my aesthetic. I want to also say I now know basics of javascript and know how to think algorithmically, which is good because I can now move on to learning the basics of other programming languages.
    </p>
  </li>
</ul>

<hr>

<h2 id="skill">Skill Development and Application</h2>
<ul>
  <li>
    <h5>Reflect on the three skill levels outlined in the course <a href="https://dport96.github.io/ITM352/index.html" target="_blank">(syntactic, algorithmic, application)</a> and discuss your progression through these levels.
</h5>
    <ol>
      <li>
        <h6>Syntactic</h6>
          <p>
            I feel that we have come a long way and are intermediate with syntactics because we still have errors here and there. However, for the most parts we are proficient at syntaxes, we can identify arrays, objects, using colons, semi-colons, the order of "", '', and `` and also using comas for organizational practices. But like I mentioned, sometimes these mistakes are still made and can cause us to mess the code up.
          </p>
        </li>
      <li>
        <h6>Algorithmic</h6>
        <p>
          I think we are proficient with algorithmic thinking. I really liked the practices we did with these; day of week, making change, the robot and tiles, and the Assignment #2. These helped my understanding of algorithmic thinking because it helped me think of the process of what needs to be done before moving on to the next thing and knowing what the goal is at hand.
        </p>
      </li>
      <li>
        <h6>Application</h6>
        <p>
          I think I am in between intermediate and proficient with applications because although I know this well, I feel that I need more practice with applications. I am able to use css, html, and javascript to run a program and make it dynamic. However, we were given the server layout and a template for Assignments #1 and #2, which we should learn to do to fully understand it, but we briefly went over it so we have a novice understanding of the server. Despite that I can use syntaxes and algorithms using css, html, and javascript to create a E-commerce.
        </p>
      </li>
    </ol>
  </li>

  <li>
    <h5>Describe how the hands-on experience with web-based e-service applications enhanced your understanding and confidence in handling MIS issues.</h5>
    <p>
      The hands-on experience with web-based e-service applications enhanced my understanding and confidence in handling MIS issues because most of the time we were completely on our own. This hand-on experience of creating and improving the website allowed me to practice the programming which increased my understanding of what was happening in the application. With more practice I ran into many errors, bugs, which lead to keep debugging and testing over and over again. I am okay with handling MIS issues because with the many mistakes I have made, I learned so much from it.
    </p>
  </li>
</ul>

<hr>

<h2 id="AI">Use of AI (e.g. ChatGPT)</h2>
<ul>
  <li>
    <h5>Discuss how use of AI enhanced your learning and productivity. Give specific examples of how you used AI effectively.</h5>
    <p>
      I have mentioned this above in <a href="#Chat">how I overcame my challenges</a>, but I will elaborate further here. I used ChatGPT to understand more operations, syntaxes, why my code was not working, and css formatting for html (debatable). I ask chat why my code is not working and throws me some code (that does not work for the application I was working on) that I can use to try and understand what I was doing wrong, this may be wrong syntaxes or wrong operations. I ask chat why the code works and why does it work. With this I can understand more of the code. For example it would spew out "if(normal !== abnormal)" and I can highlight the "!==" and ask "what is the difference between using !== and ===?" and answer with a example of how they are both used and summarizes " '!==' checks for inequality without type conversion. '===' checks for equality with type conversion." Chat would also tell you if your code is poor programming practices and shows you a better practice. 
    </p>
  </li>

  <li>
    <h5>Discuss how use of AI inhibited your learning or and productivity. Give specific examples of how you used AI ineffectively.</h5>
    <p>
      As I mentioned above, I asked chat to help me with css formatting, in class we did not learn much css (and there is so much to learn). I could easily read about css, however when I apply some css, they do not do what I need them to do and sometimes the css I input overwrites another css, or sometimes my css formatting is redundant. I use chat to do my css formatting because there are just so much to input just for a specific format you want. This saves time from having to keep redoing it, and use that time to work on testing and debugging. Also, the reason why I said debatable is because I also asked why it does certain things, so ultimately I am learning from chat.
    </p>
  </li>
</ul>

<hr>

<h2 id="future">Future Implications and Professional Growth</h2>
<p>
  I feel that this course will help me tremendously because the basic css, html, javscript, and the way we have to think is helping us understand ways to solve a problem. We have to critically think of the end goal and think step by step on how to get there. We have to know what step is missing to move on the next step. The way we handle MIS problems is by thinking where is it having a problem, if you can not identify that you have to test things by order and see where things stop working and start from there. In MIS we need to skills of perseverance, determination, and critical problem solving. I can use these skills in my future endeavors by thinking logically and trying and solving where the issue is. These basics that we learned can go a long way to learning other programming languages, this is a good start.
</p>
